# Wednesday, September 29, 2021

I found a wonderful quote on Jungian Shadow Work:

>To fall in love is to project the most noble
and infinitely valuable part of one's being onto
another human being, though sometimes
under rare circumstances it may be projected
onto something other than a human. There
are people who put their divine capacity on a
profession or art or even a place. Language is
accurate in saying that such a person has
fallen in love with medicine , the works of
Picasso, or the Ojai Valley. 

...

>To fall in love is to project that particularly
golden part of one's shadow , the image of
God — whether masculine or feminine — onto
another person. Instantly, that person is the
carrier of everything sublime and holy. One
waxes eloquent in praise of the beloved and
uses the language of divinity. 

-*Owning Your Own Shadow* by Robert A. Johnson

#JungianShadowWork

I suppose I ought to have a page for [[Jung]].

Reflection: 

According to [[Joseph Murphy]], the desire for revenge should not be brooded upon, because if a thinker is filled with thoughts of revenge, they become internal poisons and harm the thinker. Thus although I may "fall in love" with the idea of a superpower or some fictitious super-warrior, I ought to be cautious of idolizing violence. Certainly, a grim, violent anti-hero could be very dangerous if brooding on my "love" (or perhaps "infatuation") for an anti-heroic ideal tended to make me brood on vengeance. 

So is it possible to have a hero without violence? Perhaps [[Arthur Machen]], [[Algernon Blackwood]], and [[Edward Bulwer-Lytton]] wrote of such heroes, but both the writers and the heroes were occultists. When one struggles primarily against astral spirits and thought forms, one can travel without a loaded revolver. The temptation to make every story into a pulp gunfighter story is strong. Possibly I could separate the stories. Perhaps I could have some set of pulp gunfighter characters and some set of pulpy nonviolent occult investigator characters, and perhaps there would not need to be any overlap.

Some antagonist characters in occult stories are pretty damn dangerous, even on a physical level, but gunfights are not necessarily the answer.  In theory, an antagonist who resembles Crowley, and who runs an organized crime ring focused on drugs, prostitution, and blackmail, *could* be opposed by being shot. And certainly many readers might get quite upset if he were to get to the end of a story without anybody shooting him. (He might have some sort of excellent protection, possibly magical, that makes it difficult for people to shoot him. If magic can do lots of things, it might be able to ward against many obvious attacks. But that magic would have to be explained to the reader -- it might be necessary to have a pulpy gunfighter hero run afoul of warding spells or curses. And the police might be terribly corrupt.)



[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Jung]: ../Jung.md "Jung"
[Joseph Murphy]: ../Joseph Murphy.md "Joseph Murphy"
[Arthur Machen]: ../Arthur Machen.md "Arthur Machen"
[Algernon Blackwood]: ../Algernon Blackwood.md "Algernon Blackwood"
[Edward Bulwer-Lytton]: ../Edward Bulwer-Lytton.md "Edward Bulwer-Lytton"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"